>> Steve Kinney: That does bring us down
to kind of another class of solutions and
problems that we can play around with.
We talked a lot about with
that same site stuff and
we've got that same origin policy, right?
And there are a bunch of hacks for
getting around that, but
then there is a real way of
dealing with it too, right?
This is when you do wanna say that, hey,
I do want to allow things to a particular
place or something along those lines,
which is this
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing.
Which we think we hate because it's
when the backend team doesn't turn on
the headers, none of our API's work, but
it's actually a way to
actually have an allow list.
If you have multiple domains or
something like that,
it gives you an ability to
kinda have that in place.
And again, it is supposed to be
an actual way to just safely get around
the Same Origin Policy,
not to actually make your life harder.
You hate the lack of CORS,
you don't hate CORS like I thought I did.
It's not a CSRF prevention mechanism,
right?
For forms because POST requests
aren't covered by CORS, right?
And so even if you had CORS requests
everywhere, or headers everywhere,
those will work on all your AJAX calls and
your fetch calls, absolutely.
They will not work on POST requests
from forms, and this is where we get to
the other side of the don't break
the web kind of stuff, right?
Because you can't really change
the rules on what existed before, right?
And so the tokens are still necessary
if you use submitting forms and
this creates an interesting conundrum.
I think if you look at our industry for
a while there,
we got really into JavaScript all the
things, and AJAX requests all the things.
And if you look at stuff like Remix or
SvelteKit or a lot of modern frameworks,
they're like,
what if you just submit a form, right?
Now, these are modern frameworks
with a lot of accouterments, right?
But you do fall back to a POST request
with AJAX is covered by the same origin
bind CORS and you do need to have all that
place, you have those protections, but
a form isn't.
So you still need this idea of a token
if you support what we're gonna
define as a simple request in a second.
So simple requests aren't subject to CORS,
and that's what a form falls under.
A simple request is pretty simple.
God, a simple request is
pretty straightforward,
it's mostly a very small set of things.
It's the base principles
of what probably existed on
the Internet before any kind
of web security, right?
So let's talk about what opts you
out of not being a simple request,
which is anything that's application JSON.
It's not a simple request, so it's fully
protected by Same-Origin policy and CORS,
and then anything other than GET,
POST, or HEAD.
So if it's a PATCH or a PUT or it uses
AJAX or a Fetch or whatever, right?
I guess application JSON, right?
Then you are protected by all the CORS
policies, and you will not theoretically
deal with the CSRF attack because
your server will block those attacks.
That token is really useful for
your forms, right?
Like I said, there is kind of a little
bit of a push towards forms, but
these are the places where we
make security boo boos, right?
Because we take the thing we know from
years and years of AJAX requests and
realize that might not be
true if I just use a form.
And those little gaps in
the knowledge that I think
is what makes stuff
the trickiest sometimes.
So there are some headers, and these
are enforced by the server if the browser
knows it's gonna do something that's not
a simple request, it sends out an option.
They can be like hey, server,
what am I allowed to do, right?
And the server responds back which is,
what origin are you, right?
And if you're someone I allow, great,
let me tell you about what
you're allowed to do, right?
And we'll see some of those.
And so these are headers in the response,
right?
So that Access-Control-Allow-Origin
will say, hey, here's an allowed domain.
It's tricky because I'm gonna say this
now and I'll say it again in a second,
it can respond with only one domain,
right?
And arguably,
you get the origin in the request, right?
And so if this origin is allowed,
you can say that you are allowed.
Telling it that some other origin
is probably not that's useful,
you do a wildcard star if
you hate yourself, right?
And let requests from anywhere come in.
But you can't give an array or
comma-separate or anything,
you can only respond with one.
So if you're saying like
this isn't allowed one,
on server-side you can have an array
check to see if it's in the array.
And then put that one teller,
hey browser, yeah, see the origin
you're coming from is accepted.
Then you can say what method it's
like yeah, sure, you can GET and
POST what you can't PUT or DELETE, right?
So you're saying from friendlywebsite.com,
right?
I will allow a certain number of methods,
Maybe all of them, maybe some of them, and
not from anyone but friendlycompany.com.
And you can say what headers
are allowed to be passed along.
This means the browser won't send
headers that it shouldn't send, right?
So it's saying, what are we cool
with sending each other both ways?
I don't use this one that much.
Then you're like,
should I be sending you the cookie, right?
There's a caveat to this one,
it can only be true, or not present.
If you have that wildcard star,
you can set this all you want.
The browser be like,
I'm not sending cookies
from everywhere to you,
no, [LAUGH], right?
Back and forth or in both directions or
your cookies, really.
If you say wildcard,
it will ignore this and
so this is important, right?
Rails did this for a while,
I don't know if it still does it.
Form, you can only do GET and
POST, you can't do PUT or DELETE.
And so the same way we had that hidden
field, that CSRF token, sometimes what
people will do is they will say,
have a hidden input field called _method.
And then in middleware, they'll change
the method, which means now you can
send PUTs and DELETEs over POST and
they'll count as a simple request.
Cuz over the wire they go as a POST, right?
I can show you in code I think I've got it
in,
>> Steve Kinney: Middleware
is in the shared one, let's see.
>> Steve Kinney: No, I think it's
actually in that previous example.
So this method override, you will see I
won't be using X it's a terrible idea,
but you will see it in older frameworks,
hopefully not newer ones.
But I can't confirm that,
not the ones that I use.
But what it does is basically, if you
have a thing called _method or query code
_method, even if it's a GET or POST, it'll
swap it out to be in a PUT or DELETE.
Which if you're not thinking this through,
all your PUTs and
DELETES and
PATCHES needed CORS permissions.
Form POSTs don't.
So you could be like I don't need a CSRF
token, or maybe your existing code.
And then one person decided they
wanted to use forms, right?
Great use forms, use HTTP primitives.
But it's like these are the accidents cuz
now as it counts as a simple request,
it's not getting checked
by the CORS policy.
You didn't know that no one saw
it in the code review, right?
And now you have a way to send a DELETE
request with no validation from
the server, right?
And this is one of those things
where we get clever sometimes, or
we try to switch out things and
we're not thinking holistically, and
we don't have that knowledge
base of how things work.
We accidentally create these holes,
no one did it on purpose, right?
It's tricky, the blameless postmortem,
it's hard to be blameless all the time.
But generally speaking, it was that
kind of, we did this thing back then, or
had a framework that did a thing, and
then I know that CORS doesn't allow this.
So I don't worry about the CSRF token,
you have a problem now.
So yeah, don't try to send
PUTs through POST requests and
try to do anything clever,
you will hurt yourself or it won't work.
The other one I said before,
it can only be one array,
you can't use a wildcard in the domain.
You can't be like
*.frontendmasters.com, right?
You can't do comma-separated values,
if you do,
you enter the wonderful world of
undefined, unspecified behavior, right?
Which means maybe you have a really smart
browser that will figure out what you
meant and do something, but a lot of times
you'll end up with a wildcard, right?
And now you will accidentally be open to
all sorts of different attacks.
So it's being very careful
about the CORS stuff and
not trying to do anything fancy or wild
is probably the way forward in this one.
And I think that if you really
mess this one up, you will end up
in a situation where both it is a
wildcard, and you will allow credentials.
That thing that I told you
where it won't send cookies
from that origin to the bad one.
If you say "*", there's a chance that
you could get yourself in trouble here.
if you really on your server-side
need to get very nuanced about this.
There are some additional request security
headers that we talked about earlier
that are part of the HTTP spec.
There's a whole bunch in the requests
that Chrome will jam in there too.
But there are ones that you
can check on the server-side.
If you are really like, yo,
this is a very sensitive operation,
and I wanna be very strict
on what's allowed to happen.
You can check these headers and
choose to return a 400 or what have you?
403, if they don't work.
And so
one of them is this security-fetch-site,
which just kinda tells you
really granularly, hey,
the user did this, they literally
typed in www.yourcompany.com.
You'll get a none there,
which means the user did it,
which means it's probably legit.
Whether it's cross-site, same-site,
same-origin, so on and so forth.
So you can kinda see exactly the nature
of this particular request and
get a little more granular.
It's like all these
policies are just enforced.
They're an agreement between
the server and the browser and
what you can do is basically use
that to kind of have extra layer.
Will you need this all the time?
Probably not, but you will know
if you have a use case for it.
And honestly, if you only remember
that stuff kinda like this exists and
you put that in your memory banks for two
years from now when you need this stuff,
I did my job.
Where is it going?
So I got this request,
where is the response headed to?
Is it going into an iframe?
Is it going into a full document
cuz someone changed in the URL?
Is it going to a web worker?
You can see literally when
the response is sent,
what kind of code is receiving it?
This fetch-user is, again, was
triggered by a user not by code, right?
Not through setTimeout or something
like that, you can see that as well.
That will only be present if it's true, so
you can't check to see if it was false.
And then, was it on websockets?
It's very similar to
the other one as well and
these are additional
ones that you can use.